{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1515;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \nowidctlpar\b\f0\fs20 Component Synthesis using Model-Integrated Computing (CoSMIC)\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b0\par
\pard This is a release version 0.7.4 of Component Synthesis using Model-Integrated Computing ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.dre.vanderbilt.edu/cosmic" }}{\fldrslt{\cf1\ul CoSMIC}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20 ) suite of tools. Currently CoSMIC tool suite consists of \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720 o\tab Platform-Independent Component Modeling Language (PICML)\par
o\tab Component QoS Modeling Language (CQML)\par
o\tab DDS QoS Modeling Language (DQML)\par
o\tab Language for Embedded Query and Traversal (LEESA). \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\pard PICML is a Model-Integrated Computing ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.isis.vanderbilt.edu/"}}{\fldrslt{\cf1\ul MIC}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20 ) based paradigm for modeling CORBA Component Model ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/formal/components.htm" }}{\fldrslt{\cf1\ul CCM}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20 ) based applications, which use the latest Deployment and Configuration Specification {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.omg.org/cgi-bin/doc?ptc/2003-07-02" }}{\fldrslt{\cf1\ul (D&C)}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20 , for configuration and deployment. CQML allows PICML-based models to capture the higher level QoS design intent and helps generate QoS configuration metadata from annotated models. DQML allows modeling of large number QoS knobs provided by DDS. LEESA is a domain-specific embedded language (DSEL) in C++ that provides a succinct and expressive notation for writing object structure (model) traversal.\par
\par
This document lists the new features that are introduced in the latest version.\par
\par
\ul\b Release CoSMIC-0.7.4\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ulnone\b0\'b7\tab CoSMIC supports ACE/TAO/CIAO 0.7.4\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\'b7\tab Depending upon the version of GME chosen, different CoSMIC installers are available.\ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx720\ulnone\b0 o\tab GME 9.8.28 with UDM 3.2.1 built using Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 (VC9)\par
o\tab GME 7.6.29 with UDM 3.1.2 built using Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 (VC8)\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\'b7\tab Updated PICML to support CIAO/DAnCE 0.7.3. \ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\ulnone\b0 o\tab Entry points for a component implementation are no longer defined on an ImplementationArtifact element. Now, entry points are defined on the ComponentExecutorArtifact or ComponentServantArtifact that is attached to MonolithicImplementation element. \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 o\tab Implemented a new interpreter named ComponentImplementationGenerator that will generate the default implementation and artifacts for an existing component in the interface definitions. This interpreter can be accessed via the interpreter dialog box (i.e., File | Run Interpreter...)\ul\b\par
\pard\ulnone\b0\tab       o\tab The deployment plan interpreter now inserts plan locality information in the generated deployment plan. The deployment plan interpreter now \tab\tab\tab generated spec-compliant XML for its generated deployment plans. Contact: James Hill <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:hillj@cs.iupui.edu"}}{\fldrslt{\cf1\ul hillj@cs.iupui.edu}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20 >\par
\tab       o\tab Contact: James Hill <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:hillj@cs.iupui.edu"}}{\fldrslt{\cf1\ul hillj@cs.iupui.edu}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20 >\ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ulnone\b0\'b7\tab IDL_TO_PICML\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440 o\tab Support for the MCPP preprocessor has been added to the idl_to_picml tool.\~ This replaces the default system preprocessor and will result in some speed improvement.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 o\tab Bug fix: idl_to_picml now uses fully scoped names when generating a component implementation and its default artifacts to avoid name clashes.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 o\tab Bug fix: Under certain unknown circumstances, idl_to_picml failed to generate UUIDs on the necessary modeling elements.\par
o\tab Bug fix: A memory deletion problem associated with XMLString::transcode has been fixed.\par
o\tab Bug fix (3740): A problem of raising an unknown exception when -i command-line option is specified has been fixed.\par
o\tab Bug fix (3742): Front end of idl_to_picml now handles upto 1024 .idl files at the command-line.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 o\tab Bug fix (3749): Simplified idl_to_picml project to use tao_idl_fe project only.\par
\pard\tab       o\tab Contact: Jeff Parsons <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:j.parsons@vanderbilt.edu"}}{\fldrslt{\cf1\ul j.parsons@vanderbilt.edu}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20 >\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\'b7\tab  LEESA\ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\ulnone\b0 o\tab A new StateMachine (SM) paradigm and a corresponding interpreter have been added to show how to use LEESA in a UDM-based project.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 o\tab Documentation of LEESA has been enhanced.\par
\pard\tab       o\tab Contact: Sumant Tambe < {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:sutambe@dre.vanderbilt.edu"}}{\fldrslt{\cf1\ul sutambe@dre.vanderbilt.edu}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20 >\ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
Release CoSMIC-0.7.3\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx720\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab LEESA:\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\qj\tx1440 o\tab LEESA is a new way of writing traversals over typed object structures, such as models and XML documents. LEESA (\b L\b0 anguage for \b E\b0 mbedded qu\b E\b0 ry and traver\b SA\b0 l) is a domain-specific embedded language (DSEL) in C++ that provides a succinct and expressive notation for writing object structure traversal. For more information please see $(CoSMIC installation directory)\\Traversal\\LEESA.pdf\par
o\tab Contact: Sumant Tambe <sutambe@dre.vanderbilt.edu>\fs22\par
\fs20\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ul\b\par
Release CoSMIC-beta-0.6.3\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab PICML:\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab Enabled support for modeling complex type Property elements, such as collections, aggregates, and enums.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab PICMLManager: \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab It replaces old UUIDManager addon. \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\qj\tx1440 o\tab Handles generating a unique name for the PublishConnector object when its added to a component assembly.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\qj o\tab When an AttributeValue connection is added to a model, i.e., creating a connection between an attribute and a property, the manager ensures the referenced data type in the property is the correct type. This includes autonomously adding the correct data type to the property, or making sure the current referenced data type is the same type as the attribute.\par
o\tab When an attribute is given a new data type, PICMLManager ensures that all properties of the target attribute in the component assembly model has the newly selected data type.\par
o\tab When an ExternalDelegate connection is created between an ExternalPortReference and a port (e.g., ProvidedEventPort, RequiredEventPort, InEventPort, or OutEventPort), the referenced object for the ExternalEventPort is set to the referenced object for the target port.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab Contact: James H. Hill  <hillj@isis.vanderbilt.edu>\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab PropertyManager:\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab A new interpreter that simplifies setting the values of complex type Property values.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab Component Behavior Modeling Language (CBML) has new features.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab Added modeling support for do-while, for, and while loops. They have the same modeling semantics as branch states.\par
o\tab Contact: James H. Hill  <hillj@isis.vanderbilt.edu>\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab CIAOEvents Project\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab EventChannelConfiguration model and an interpreter for CQML\par
o\tab Contact: Friedhelm Wolf <fwolf@dre.vanderbilt.edu>\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab NetQoS\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab New OCL constraints to check the well-formedness of the model using NetQoS.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440 o\tab Contact: Sumant Tambe <sutambe@dre.vanderbilt.edu>\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab Bug fixes:\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab DeploymentPlan Interpreter: The implementation detail of a component instance is now determined by the component instance\rquote s type, and not its name. Selecting the implementation detail based on the component instance\rquote s name was a problem when a subtype of a component, or any component instance, was given the incorrect name. \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440 o\tab DeploymentPlan Interpreter: The type information for monolithic components of component assembly instances that were contained in another component assemblies was not handled correctly.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\tx1440 o\tab Contact: James H. Hill  <hillj@isis.vanderbilt.edu>\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
The sources of CoSMIC beta release version 0.6.3 can be found under \b\ldblquote CoSMIC-beta-0.6.3\rdblquote\b0  tag of the CoSMIC subversion repository.\par
\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\ul\b Release CoSMIC-beta-0.5.7\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\tx720\'b7\tab A new paradigm called CQML captures higher level system quality-of-service (QoS) design intent of the designer. Following is a list of different QoS modeling capabilities of CQML:\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\qj\tx1440 o\tab Fault-tolerance aspect modeling supports modeling of protected components, degree of replication, replication style and more. The interpreter augments deployment plan with replica components, connections and decides a placement for all the components.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\qj o\tab Network QoS modeling supports modeling of bidirectional bandwidth requirements of CCM level connections. Also it supports traffic characteristic modeling.\par
o\tab Real-time configuration model checking capabilities using BOGOR generates the Bogor Input Representation (BIR) for RT configuration options (component-level) specified in CQML models.\par
o\tab Real-time configuration modeling supports modeling of Real-time options at the component level. The interpreter generates correspondingly server resources file(s) and augments the deployment plan with RT policies for that plan.\par
o\tab Security QoS modeling allows the modeling of Security QoS policies and Role-Based Access Control to allow specification of permissions on resource access such as assemblies, components, ports, operations, attributes, critical paths, etc.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li1440\qj\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\qj\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\tx720\'b7\tab DeploymentPlanFramework (DPFramework) is an extensible framework that provides a fixed set of extension points where a deployment plan can be extended with QoS specific metadata. Many of the CQML interpreters are implemented as extensions to the DPFramework.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\ul\b Release CoSMIC-0.4.8\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\'b7\tab Modeling of component behavior is supported using I/O Automata language.It is based on the formalism of Input/Output automata. The interpreter generates a workload characterization file which can be further used to drive the workload emulators.\line\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\'b7\tab New command line option for the IDL importer: -r <path>. This option takes the place of a list of IDL files, and causes the importer to process all IDL files in <path> and its    subdirectories.\line\par
\'b7\tab IDL importer now automatically adds $TAO_ROOT, $TAO_ROOT/tao, $CIAO_ROOT, and $CIAO_ROOT/ciao to its set of include paths.\line\par
\'b7\tab A new paradigm sheet with ability to generate all available path diagrams originating out of a chosen port within the given model. The required port needs to be chosen and subsequently the interpreter needs to be run which generates all the possible paths through which control can flow in the run-time. Helps detecting possible faults in design and architecture.\line\par
\'b7\tab The CIDL interpreter now generates a one-to-one mapping of CIDL files to IDL files specified in a project. \line\par
\'b7\tab It also preserves factories declared in packages by using module declarations. This prevents factories having the same declaration and located in different packages from being overwritten.\line\par
\'b7\tab Enhanced QoSPML (QoS Policy Modeling Language) and integrated it into PICML. This language is available in the RTConfiguration model in PICML and allows developers to model RT-CCM entities such as thread-pools with lanes, priority banded connections and priority propagation models as well as some CIAO-specific configurations such as command line options and service configuration filenames.\line\par
\'b7\tab Added an interpreter which produces XML configuration code based on the RTConfiguration models in PICML. The output is conformant to the XML schema available at $CIAO_ROOT/docs/schema/CIAOServerResources.xsd\line\par
\'b7\tab A new modeling language has been added to CoSMIC that provides high level QoS modeling and meta-modeling.  This language is currently an alpha implementation and its use is not currently recommended as it will undergo substantial changes and improvement in forthcoming releases.\line\par
\'b7\tab Added enhancements to the flat-plan interpreter to deploy multiple instances of a component across multiple nodes.\line\par
\'b7\tab Fixed a number of bugs in the flat-plan interpreter.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656 Release CoSMIC-0.4.6 \par
\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\'b7\tab A new "attribute mapping" feature which allows values for attributes to\line specified at the assembly level and allows propagation of the values to\line individual components in the assembly.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\'b7\tab MPC interpreter now generates MPC files which are in-sync with the MPC \line config modules in $ACE_ROOT/bin/MakeProjectCreator/config         \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi480\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\'b7\tab Improved constraints which catch a lot more errors compared with\line previous versions.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\'b7\tab Importing IDL files into PICML models automatically fills a lot of the\line modeling artifacts which had to created by the user previously.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi480\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\'b7\tab First-cut implementation of importing an updated IDL file with changes\line into an existing PICML model.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\'b7\tab FlatPlan interpreter is available as one of the interpreters.  Many\line bugs have been fixed in the FlatPlan interpreter compared to the version\line that was available with beta releases of CoSMIC 0.4.6.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\'b7\tab Improved installer which should fix a lot of problems with installing\line CoSMIC.  The installer has been tested on Windows XP SP2, Windows XP\line SP1a, Windows 2000 SP4, Windows Server 2003, Windows XP x64.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
}
 